How to create your Own Branch and Submit it from your computer to GitHub using command line



1. Use Terminal(linux preferrably or use powershell on windows)

2. install git
sudo apt-get install git :for linux

3. clone this repository(submission folder)
git clone https://github.com/USMA-SIGSAC/learn-C
: this will make a copy of submission folder in your computer!

Enter credentials. you should have a learn-C folder in your computer after this.
This will be your local folder to work on learn C!!

Let's test it out by creating a test file(making changes) and uploading it!

4. make changes.
For example 
nano Testing.txt
type "testing" into the file. 
ctrl x
y

This is your test file! 
Now, it is time to upload your changes to your own branch!

**MUST BE INSIDE "/learn-C" Directory when you use any of the commands.

5. create your branch(it will be your submission folder in learn-C group)
git branch MyBranchName :to create a branch named "MyBranchName" 
git branch  :to check your current branch
git add nameofthefile :to add a new file called nameofthefile

6. Check Status before saving.
Always type 
git status  : to check your status of the changes!
for example since you added a new file called Testing.txt, type
git add Testing.txt :to let github know you added a file! You must do this Every time you make changes to your local file or it will not reflect your changes!.

*Don't type this in. This is for future reference.
rm Testing.txt : will remove your file your from local folder
git rm Testing.txt : will remove Testing.txt from repo with this new commit
 

6. make commit
Commits are new versions of the file. 
This is like saving a new file before uploading.

Make a commit by using
git commit -m "This is uploading test file!" : this command will save the changes as a commit!
You can replace "This is uploading test file!" with any message that can help you track this commit.

7. push commit
Finally we are uploading(pushing) to github server!

git push origin MyBranchName : to upload your commits to MyBranchName branch!
It might ask for credentials again.

If you have any questions email me at gunwoo.kim@usma.edu!
